*vim-java-unittests*

Unit Tests
**********


JUnit
=====

*:JUnitExecute* *:JUnitResult*


Executing test cases and viewing the results.
---------------------------------------------

When editing java source files eclim exposes a couple commands which
allow you to easily execute junit test cases and view the results.
First, please note that eclim does not attempt to provide a junit
execution environment.  Instead the goal is to allow you to easily
interface with your favorite build tool (ant, maven, etc.).

The first of the commands is :JUnitExecute.  This command is
responsible for executing the current test case or the test case
supplied as an argument.

The second command is :JUnitResult.  This command is responsible for
locating and opening the result file for the current test case or the
test case supplied as an argument.

Note: Both commands support command completion of their respective
  arguments as long as the settings defined below are defined
  properly.

*:JUnitImpl*


Generating test method stubs.
-----------------------------

While editing junit files, eclim provides functionality to generate
test method stubs similar to the method override / impl (|:JavaImpl|)
functionality provided for non-test-case classes.  The only difference
is that instead of :JavaImpl, you use :JUnitImpl to open the window of
possible methods to implement.

To determine what class the current test case is for, eclim expects
that the standard naming convention for test cases is followed, where
the test case has the same fully qualified class name as the target
class with a 'Test' suffix.

For a class org.foo.bar.Baz, the exepected test case would be named
org.foo.bar.BazTest.

So when invoking :JUnitImpl from within org.foo.bar.BazTest, eclim
would look for the class org.foo.bar.Baz and generate a list of
methods to test from it.

When you hit <enter> on the method to add, if that method belongs to a
type in the hierarchy for the class being tested, then the
corresponding test method stub will be inserted, otherwise a regular
overriding stub will be generated.

Note: The junit.jar file must be in your project's classpath for eclim to
  display possible methods to override in the junit test-case
  hierarchy.


Configuration
-------------

Eclim Settings (|vim-settings|)

*org.eclim.java.junit.src_dir*

- org.eclim.java.junit.src_dir - Defines the location of the junit
  test case source files.  Currently this is only utilized for command
  completion of test case names for :JUnitExecute. Supports
  "<project>" key to represent the root directory of the current
  project.

  Ex.

  >
     org.eclim.java.junit.src_dir=<project>/src/test/junit

  <

*org.eclim.java.junit.output_dir*

- org.eclim.java.junit.output_dir - Defines the location of the junit
  test case results.  Supports "<project>" key to represent the root
  directory of the current project.

  Ex.

  >
     org.eclim.java.junit.output_dir=<project>/build/test/results

  <

*org.eclim.java.junit.command*

- org.eclim.java.junit.command - Defines the command used to execute a
  test case.

  Supports the following keys:

  - <testcase>: key representing the requested test case to execute
    using path separators.

    Ex. org/test/SomeTest

    Useful for use with ant and maven 2.x.

  - <testcase_class>: key representing the fully qualified class name
    of the requested test case to execute.

    Ex.  org.test.SomeTest

    Useful for use with maven 1.x.

  Ex.

  >
     # Ant, assuming you have a target 'test' supporting
     # property 'junit.include'.
     org.eclim.java.junit.command=Ant -Djunit.include=<testcase> test

     # Maven 2.x using built in surefire plugin.
     org.eclim.java.junit.command=Mvn -Dtest=<testcase> test

     # Maven 1.x using built in test plugin.
     org.eclim.java.junit.command=Maven -Dtestcase=<testcase_class> test:single

  <

*org.eclim.java.junit.version*

- org.eclim.java.junit.version (Default: 4) - Specifies the primary
  junit version being used, which determines which junit test method
  template will be used to generated the test method stubs.


TestNG
======

Currently eclim's support for TestNG (http://testng.org/doc) is
limited to supporting Vim's :make in conjunction with ant to populate
vim's quickfix results with failed test cases.

By default TestNG's output to the console is very terse.  So in order
to support monitoring of failed test cases via vim's error format,
eclim provides a custom TestNG listener which must be installed into
your build environment.

1. The first step is to place the eclim-testng.jar file in your TestNG
   classpath you have configured for ant.  You can find this jar file
   in your $ECLIPSE_HOME/plugins/org.eclim.jdt_version/ directory.

2. The second step is to add the listener attribute to your testng
   task which references the required eclim testng listener:

   >
        ...
      <testng ... listener="org.eclim.testng.TestNgListener">
        ...

   <

   See the testng ant task docs (http://testng.org/doc/ant.html) for
   more information.

Once you have completed that setup, you should then be able to run
your ant target from vim and (as long as eclim is running) all failed
test cases will be added to your vim quickfix results.

Ex. Assuming your ant task is named 'test':

>

   :Ant test

<

vim:ft=eclimhelp